Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture on insulation on easy to by now you should have already been
able to S-sh and connect into your E.C to instance either using putty for Windows or directly at the
terminal for Mac or Linux users.
Everything will do now will be directly through that command line interface.
So make sure to follow along carefully our tasks for this easy to instance or the following.
Firstly to actually download and install Sparc and all its dependencies.
Then we need to install the Jupiter notebook system.
We also need to connect it with Paice park and then we'll need to access the easy to do but notebook
in our local browser.
So let's get started by hopping over to our S-sh connection to the actual E.C to instance.
All right here and connected into my E.C to instance the first thing I want to do is type sudo apt get
update.
And this is going to update my ability to install certain things such as Pipp 3 for installing accesses
into Python once said then sudo apt get update.
I can clear my console here to give myself a little more room and then all I need to do is say sudo
apt install and I will type in Python 3 dash Pipp hit enter and what this is going to do is it's going
to install Pipp 3 which will then allow me to install Python packages so his wife.
Yes and then I will fast forward in time for this to be finished installing Pipp 3.
Once that is done installing Pipp 3 we can clear the console and then type Pipp 3 install Jupiter hit
enter and then that's going to collect the uninstalled Jupiter for us.
So I will fast forward in time for this to finish.
OK so that finished installing Jupiter.
Now I just want to install Sparke get that set up do a few things with configuring Jupiter notebook
and then we should be ready after that to hop over to the browser and for the full connection.
But first let's focus on installing Sparc and going to clear my console again.
Just search things nice and clean and then I will install Java in case we don't have it yet.
You can just say sudo app get install and then type in default dash.
J R E.
Hit enter hit y for continue.
And then this is going to install Java for us.
So Java needs to be there in order for Scollard to be there and Scotland has to be there in order for
Sparc to be there so we'll let this go and I'm going to hop forward in time for Java to finish installing
once Chavez finished installing he should be able to confirm by typing Java based bash version enter
and it should say something like.
Open open JDK version etc..
Some sort of output like this.
So the next thing to do is a really similar command.
Sudo apt get.
Except this time we're going to install Skala.
So say sudo apt get install Skala hit enter.
So like why to continue installing Skala and let that go again.
I'm going to hop forward for this to install.
Looks like it have to is pretty quick and we can check on this by saying Scala.
That version should be attached to the version hit enter.
You should see some sort of report back like two point eleven version of Scala.
Great.
Now we want to do is actually install the PI for J library though we need to connect Python to Java
and then we also want to install Sparc and Hadoop.
So to install PI for J say pitte 3 install py for J and enter and then that's going to quickly install
PI for J and next thing I want to do is just install the actual SPARC library so I'm going to clear
my console and then type in the following and this is basically going to be a connection to a U R L
So it's going to be a bit of a long typing spree but don't worry it's not so bad.
First you need to do is say W get than say HTP colon forward slash forward slash archive Apache dot
org slash DSTO for distribution slash Sparke slash spark to point one point one you can change that
version number if you want.
If you're doing this in the future time and then will say spark dash to point one point one dash bin
Dash could do and will be using two point seven and then say Dot T GZ.
All right so once you've done all that you'll hit enter and basically what this is going to do is it's
going to dilute that TGT file from the Apache or archives.
So this may take one or two minutes so I'm going to fast forward in time until it's done.
Once we have that TDC file we can unzip it.
So I will say sudo tar.
Dash z x the F and then if you begin typing Sparke you can hit TAB autocomplete to get that entire file.
Hit enter and it is basically going to install SPARC for us as well as Hadoop.
So once that's done you should be able to ls and list everything and what I want you to do is CD into
SPARC.
And then once you're CD into that spark folder type P.W. the print working directory you should see
something that looks like this home Ubuntu and then whatever version of SPARC you have.
This is a really important file path that we're going to need to use later on when we actually are dealing
with the Jupiter notebooks or remember that file path right here.
OK so I'm going to see the back to my home directory clear my console and our ready for the next step.
And then once this is clear I'm going to type Pipp three install and then find the spark enter and sort
of find spark module is going to help us connect Python with SPARK really easily.
So once that's installed the next thing to do is type Jupiter notebook space dash dash generate dash
config then hit enter.
So that's going to generate this Jupiter notebook config that PI file inside of home.
Boon to that Jupiter slash and then the actual PI file.
What I want to do now is in my home directory going to create another directory called certs for certification.
So in case you're not in your home directory and following along you should be there but type CD to
confirm that you're there and then say M-K DJR for make directory and then type inserts.
Then we're going to change directory into service and then we're going to type in the following command.
You'll say pseudo open.
S S L R E Q space dash x 5 0 9 dash nodes dash days 365 for 365 days a week then we'll say dash Nuki
then say our as a colon.
1 0 2 4.
Then the next thing you have to do is space bash key outs.
You can say mine are pm and then say dash out my Sir P..
So be careful with this one.
But basically what this is doing is creating some PM files that we're going to use for our Jupiter configuration
file.
So hit enter and it should prompt you for some information like the country name so you can type in
something like US state or province I'm in California.
If you don't want to fill these out you can just enter and it will just leave blanks for you there and
that's totally OK.
So if you don't keep hitting enter and then eventually you'll get back to your actual command line.
So we've created the certifications and we generate a configuration file.
We need to do is edit that current figuration file.
So type CD then this tilt symbol forward slash Jupiter forward slash enter.
And now we're in that hidden directory for Jupiter and we are going to use a visual editor or vi to
edit the file.
So type VI and then start typing Jupiter and you should be able to tab autocomplete to say Vi Jupiter
underscore notebook underscore config that PI hit enter and then what we see here is the actual PI file.
So it may look a little dark but basically this is a PI file and everything in blue here is commented
out.
So we wanted to insert some things into the file in order to do that we need press on her keyboard and
that will allow you to insert things.
Notice how the bottom changed there and we're going to type in the following at the top of this file.
C is equal to get underscore config close parentheses then see the notebook app the search file is equal
to you and then single quo forward slash home to boon to slash certs slash my Sir PTM and then close
that single quote.
So we have that string basically telling it your certification files over there.
Then we're going to do is tell it to run an all IP addresses of this instance.
So see the notebook app.
The IP is equal to.
And then in single quotes again as a string just put an asterix there which essentially saying OK run
this on all IP addresses.
We also don't want to open the notebook browser by default to say See Dot notebook app open underscore
browser.
So let me make sure I type that right.
Browser is equal to false.
And then finally we will fix this to port 8 8 8 8.
So I'll say See that notebook app that Portes equal to 8 8 8 8.
OK once we've done this in order to escape out of this insert method you hit escape on your keyboard
and that will end this escape or excuse me and the insert method and then we want to do is type a colon.
So that's two thoughts.
And immediately you'll see at the bottom of the console you have these two colons or the colon there
and then type w q.
So that's right quick and then an exclamation point to actually execute this enter.
And this will essentially write that information to that Jupiter notebook config file.
Great.
So now we should be ready to go.
So what I will do is type CD to come back home and then I'm going to run Jupiter space notebook hit
enter.
And we should see something that looks like this.
And notice that it says copy and paste this URL into your browser when you connect for the first time.
So that's exactly what we need to do to copy this entire ordeal.
So if you're using putty on windows you can't really do a right click or a control see.
You need to do it just highlight this and then that's it.
Once you've highlighted it should be copied and pasted into your actual clipboard.
So now what we need to do after we copy and paste this is replace this local host with the actual AWOS
DNS address that's located in our console on a.
So let me show you how to do that.
So basically again just highlight this if you're on Windows you're ready to go if you're on a Mac or
Linux just copy and paste this you are l and let's upload it to the browser and show you how to finish
everything.
OK here I am at my browser and I've pasted this HD local host a.
And then plus that long token into my browser right now and nothing's going to connect because I need
to change this local host into my actual E.S. to address.
So come over to your easy to con..
And down here if you're easy to instant selected you should see the public DNS which is the sky right
here.
So you're going to copy this guy and then put it in here and replace local host with that address so
paste it in and then we're going to hit enter here.
You should see something that says oh this is not secure because it doesn't know whether or not are
easy to instance is actually trying to steal information from us.
But we created this easy to instance we know it's safe so click here on advanced and then click on proceed
to E.S. to and eventually you will find your Jew Bruno book system perfect.
So here we have our Jupiter notebook system I'm going to zoom in a little bit so it looks more readable
to you guys.
And let's practice this so I'll create new Python 3 notebook.
And then once this is loaded up we're going to be able to import PI spark by using the find that spark
library.
So remember previously I said remember that specific file path of where SPARC is saved you're going
to need that in order to successfully connect Python with SPARC.
So I will say import Paice Sparc and if I just run this I should get an error and it says hey no module
named PI Sparc and that's where we're going to use find a spark to connect it.
So we're going to import fine spark.
Now we just need to find spark where our spark is located.
So what we do is say find spark in it to initiate and then as a string I'm going to paste in that specific
file path.
And if you've been following along you should have the exact same file path I have which is home Ubuntu
and then that SPARC folder do shift enter to run that cell once you've run that you should be able to
say import Paice spark shift enter.
And now we don't get any errors.
It's been able to successfully connect with fine spark and that way don't have to deal with any of those
export commands that you may see in other tutorials if you're familiar with exporting stuff and setting
bash RC as your source.
You can go ahead and do that method.
I find this method a little more flexible and just easier because it's simply two lines of code and
you can just put it straight in the notebook.
OK.
So congratulations you've successfully set up Amazon C-2 as well as SPARK and WS with Python and Sparke.
So how do you actually end this process.
Well remember that this is still running on free tier but there are limits to that if you want to just
turn this off or you can end up doing is as an action in this state you can select stop if you're ready
to lose everything lose all your data just kind of terminate and delete this instance completely.
We end up doing is hitting here on terminate.
So that's what I'm going to do right now.
If you intend to come back to this you're going to stop and start it if you want to just end everything
hit terminate.
So that's what I'm going to do.
And then it will ask you if you want to terminate.
And I'm going to terminate this.
All right.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.